---
title: "Week 2. Computer-Aided Design"
subtitle: "Back to Fab Academy 2024. Fran Sanchez"
toc-title: "Table of Contents"
return-url: "../html/"
return-text: '← Go back'
lang: es-ES
---
:::{.note .yellow}
|     |
| --- |
| *Task:* |
| Model (raster, vector, 2D, 3D, rendering, animation, simulation, ...) a possible final project, compress your images and videos, and publish a description with your design files on your page.  |
:::

# Week's Goals

[Last week started off on the wrong foot]{.smallcaps}. I barely had time to do anything.[^101] This week I'm going to be more disciplined. The first thing I'm doing is defining my goals and setting a deadline to achieve them. It's one of my favorite weeks because **I love trying out new software**. In order of preference, I'm planning to:

[^101]: I forgot that I never follow my own advice.

- **OpenFOAM. 1 day of dedication**
  - I want to learn how to create geometries in Blender.
  - I want to run a simulation of an airfoil.
  - I want to simulate incompressible flow.
  - I want to learn how to visualize results in Paraview.
- **FreeCAD. 1 day of dedication**. I have a love-hate relationship with FreeCAD. I use it, I hate it, then I miss it, I use it again, and then I hate it again. Let's see if I can fall in love with [Ondsel](https://ondsel.com) this time. Specifically, here's what I'd like to do this week:
  - Give all the tools another try to see if they’ve improved.
  - Test out the Assembly Workbench.
  - Try the TechDraw Workbench.
  - Run a simulation in Calculix.
  - I hope to integrate some hardware device to control parameters.
  - I aim to install and test the add-on by [Pieter Hijma](https://pieterhijma.net/index.html) `OSH Automated Documentation`.
- **Blender. 2 days of dedication.** This is where I've got my work cut out for me.
  - Learn as much as I can about Geometry Nodes.
  - Real-time rendering with EEVEE.
  - Control a virtual camera with my phone.
  - Create a physics simulation.
  - Create an animation with Grease Pencil.
  - Explore Blender's serial port interface.
- **JavaScript. 1 day of dedication**
  - I want to use ThreeJS to visualize 3D models on the web page.
  - I want to learn more about D3JS for data visualizations and mapping.
- **Artificial Intelligence. 1 day of dedication**
  - Explore the status of generative models in 3D
  - Read the paper on generating 3D models from large language models (LLM).
  - Use Midjourney or something similar to generate some images for the final project.
- **Command line. 1/2 day of dedication**
  - I will integrate Imagemagick into the documentation generation scripts to automate image compression.
  - I will also integrate ffmpeg into the scripts for video compression.
- **Audio. 1/2 day of dedication**
  - I'm going to take some time to learn a bit about Sonic Pi.

I think I may have overdone it. If I manage to do 1/4 of this, I'll be more than happy.

# OpenFOAM

[The Navier-Stokes Equation]{.smallcaps} is a set of partial differential equations that describe the motion of fluids. In vector form, and in a three-dimensional coordinate system, the Navier-Stokes equations for an incompressible fluid are:

\[
\rho \left( \frac{\partial \mathbf{v}}{\partial t} + (\mathbf{v} \cdot \nabla)\mathbf{v} \right) = -\nabla p + \mu \nabla^2 \mathbf{v} + \rho \mathbf{g}
\]

where:

- \(\rho\) is the fluid density,
- \(\mathbf{v}\) is the fluid velocity vector,
- \(t\) is time,
- \(p\) is the pressure,
- \(\mu\) is the fluid dynamic viscosity,
- \(\nabla\) is the nabla operator,
- \(\nabla^2\) is the Laplacian,
- \(\mathbf{g}\) is the acceleration vector due to gravity.

This equation describes the conservation of momentum and the relationship between pressure, viscosity, and fluid acceleration. Solving these equations can be complex, especially in nonlinear or turbulent situations. If the fluid is compressible, things get a bit more complicated because \(\rho\) is no longer constant but can vary over time and space.

\[
\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} + \nabla \cdot (\rho \mathbf{v}) = 0
\]

These equations cannot be solved analytically; numerical methods are required. That's where [OpenFOAM](https://openfoam.org)[^201], a set of open-source programs for the numerical simulation of fluids[^202], comes in. OpenFOAM does not have a graphical interface. All files, including the geometry, initial conditions, boundary conditions, model, etc., are introduced through text files[^203].

[^201]: Open Source Field Operation and Manipulation

[^202]: CFD, for its acronym in English

[^203]: Get this: If your job involves using a program with a graphical interface, you'll soon be on the unemployment list. Why do you think there is a significant investment in artificial intelligence with language models?

